h1. Eays setup to ODDB.org

Goal: "Setup":http://dev.ywesee.com/Choddb/SetupOddborg#StartHere of oddb.org should be easy and automatated.

As creating funtoo using veewee failed. I downloaded and used then preconfigured "Vagrant box":http://ftp.heanet.ie/mirrors/funtoo/funtoo-current/vagrant/x86-64bit/vagrant-generic_64-funtoo-current-2012-01-26.box

After a @vagrant up@ I remarked, that it was not fully vagrant compatible. Therefore I used the following commands from @funtoo-latest-x86_64/postinstall.sh@ to import all

bc. emerge app-emulation/virtualbox-guest-additions
# we need this as gentoo doesn't do it on its own
groupadd -r vboxsf
mkdir /media && chgrp vboxsf /media
rc-update add virtualbox-guest-additions default

Then after a reboot vagrant still says, that the virtualbox additions are not installed. As I have no time to follow the "instructions for Virtualbox_Guest":http://en.gentoo-wiki.com/wiki/Virtualbox_Guest.

This means that the command on my dev machine @vagrant provision@ does not work.
I decided to run puppet directly on the VM. To achieve this the following cmds were run:

@sudo mv /etc/puppet /etc/puppet.orig@
@sudo checkout git://github.com/ngiger/vagrant-oddb_org.git /etc/puppet@

Now I want to be able to run puppet manifests as root with puppet 3.1 and ruby 1.9.2 as default. 

@sudo -i rvm --default ruby-1.9.2-p290@
@sudo -i rvm get stable@

Then modified /etc/env.d/10rubygems to get rid of RUBYOPTS with -rauto_gem. I use rvm.

@sudo -i gem install bundler@
@sudo -iH bundle install --gemfile /etc/puppet/Gemfile@

The command above only completed after uncommented the "@ruby-libvirt@" gem in the Gemfile.

Now my first (very simple) notify.pp manifest worked correctly as shown below:

bc. vagrant@localhost ~ $ cat /etc/puppet/manifests/notify.pp
notify { "site.pp": }
vagrant@localhost ~ $ sudo puppet apply /etc/puppet/manifests/notify.pp
warning: Could not retrieve fact fqdn
notice: site.pp
notice: /Stage[main]//Notify[site.pp]/message: defined 'message' as 'site.pp'
notice: Finished catalog run in 0.01 seconds
 
Next step is to make hiera work.

bc. sudo -i hiera xx
Failed to start Hiera: RuntimeError: Config file /etc/hiera.yaml not found
vagrant@localhost /etc/puppet $ sudo ln -s /etc/puppet/hiera.yaml  /etc/
vagrant@localhost /etc/puppet $ hiera --debug xxx
DEBUG: 2013-03-25 14:27:34 -0700: Hiera YAML backend starting
DEBUG: 2013-03-25 14:27:34 -0700: Looking up xxx in YAML backend
DEBUG: 2013-03-25 14:27:34 -0700: Looking for data source private/config
DEBUG: 2013-03-25 14:27:34 -0700: Cannot find datafile /etc/puppet/private/config.yaml, skipping
DEBUG: 2013-03-25 14:27:34 -0700: Looking for data source hieradata/common
DEBUG: 2013-03-25 14:27:34 -0700: Found xxx in hieradata/common
Default config value for variable xxx
date is Mon Mar 25 14:28:12 PDT 2013

Copied my .ssh/keys to be able to push into my github project. date and ssh-add don't work correctly neither!
Pushed work to github. (commit "hiera works now correctly")

Create a sshfs to exchange my files.
@/usr/bin/sshfs -p 22022 -o reconnect -o follow_symlinks vagrant@localhost:/ /mnt/oddb_org@


h2. Following the script

References /var/www -> assume that I need an apache installation -> use a puppet module to install Apache ->

@puppet module install puppetlabs/apache --modulepath /etc/puppet/modules/@

To ensure that apache is always running added @service{ 'apache2': ensure => running}@.

I want to start my own module, too.

@puppet module generate ngiger-oddb_org  --modulepath /etc/puppet/modules/@

Create new files @modules/ngiger-oddb_org/init.pp@ and adapted files to make
@sudo -i puppet apply /etc/puppet/modules/ngiger-oddb_org/tests/init.pp --modulepath /etc/puppet/modules/@ run.

But it seems that puppetlabs does not know too much about Gentoo, neither less about  Funtooo

bc. sudo -i puppet apply /etc/puppet/modules/oddb_org/tests/init.pp --modulepath /etc/puppet/modules/
Warning: Could not retrieve fact fqdn
Error: Class['apache::params']: Unsupported operatingsystem: Gentoo at /etc/puppet/modules/apache/manifests/params.pp:93 on node localhost
Error: Class['apache::params']: Unsupported operatingsystem: Gentoo at /etc/puppet/modules/apache/manifests/params.pp:93 on node localhost
vagrant@localhost /etc/puppet $ 

But using @package{ 'apache': }@ works.

Now use vcsrepo to setup the git clone
@puppet module install --modulepath /etc/puppet/modules/ puppetlabs-vcsrepo@

Added files for oddb_org/oddb_git class and tests. I have problems running them as I get the following errors:

bc. Error: Execution of '/usr/bin/git clone git://scm.ywesee.com/oddb.org/.git  /home/vagrant/oddb.org' returned 128: fatal: remote error: access denied or repository not exported: /oddb.org/.git 
Cloning into '/home/vagrant/oddb.org'...

Running the same command by hand was successfull:

bc. usr/bin/git clone git://scm.ywesee.com/oddb.org/.git  /home/vagrant/oddb.org; res=$?; echo result of git was $res
Cloning into '/home/vagrant/oddb.org'...
remote: Counting objects: 37264, done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (13388/13388), done.
remote: Total 37264 (delta 29285), reused 30058 (delta 23513)
Receiving objects: 100% (37264/37264), 18.12 MiB | 2.94 MiB/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (29285/29285), done.
result of git was 0

What can the problem be? I have puppet 2.7 via emerge and puppet 3.1.1 via gem. Decided to manually run the command and proceed to the next step.

Now on my developer machine pointing firefox to @http://localhost:22080/@ works!

After a phone call with Zeno I tried to clone from github via https and this worked flawlessly.

Started a Gemfile with the list from the Guide.txt. A few gems excluded as they could not be found.

Compiling errors were

bc. Installing character-encodings (0.4.1) 
Gem::Installer::ExtensionBuildError: ERROR: Failed to build gem native extension.
        /usr/local/rvm/rubies/ruby-1.9.3-head/bin/ruby extconf.rb 
extconf.rb:4: invalid multibyte char (US-ASCII)
extconf.rb:4: invalid multibyte char (US-ASCII)
extconf.rb:4: syntax error, unexpected $end, expecting keyword_end
  checking_for "‘#{opt}’ option to compiler" do                  ^
Gem files will remain installed in /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-head/gems/character-encodings-0.4.1 for inspection.
Results logged to /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-head/gems/character-encodings-0.4.1/ext/encoding/character/utf-8/gem_make.out
An error occurred while installing character-encodings (0.4.1), and Bundler cannot continue.
Make sure that `gem install character-encodings -v '0.4.1'` succeeds before bundling.

Also the gem pg could not be compiled. I assume that this is because of missing pg headers. Therefore I will try to install the correct postgres db.

A try with the puppetlabs-postgresql module only ended in errors. Therefore resorted to use @package {'postgresql-base': ensure => '8.4.9', }@.  puppetlabs-postgresql would have be handy to populate the DB, creating users, etc.

Switched to use @ruby-1.9.3-p392@. By @rvm install ruby-1.9.3-p392 && sudo -i rvm --default ruby-1.9.3-p392 &&sudo -i bundle install --gemfile /etc/puppet/Gemfile@

Trying to install patched version of dbi:

bc.  rake dbi
rake aborted!
ERROR: 'rake/gempackagetask' is obsolete and no longer supported. Use 'rubygems/package_task' instead.
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392@global/gems/rake-10.0.4/lib/rake/gempackagetask.rb:1:in `<top (required)>'
/tmp/dbi/build/rake_task_lib.rb:3:in `<top (required)>'
/tmp/dbi/build/Rakefile.dbi.rb:1:in `<top (required)>'
/tmp/dbi/Rakefile:4:in `<top (required)>'
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392@global/gems/rake-10.0.4/lib/rake/rake_module.rb:25:in `load'
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392@global/gems/rake-10.0.4/lib/rake/rake_module.rb:25:in `load_rakefile'
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392@global/gems/rake-10.0.4/lib/rake/application.rb:589:in `raw_load_rakefile'
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392@global/gems/rake-10.0.4/lib/rake/application.rb:89:in `block in load_rakefile'
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392@global/gems/rake-10.0.4/lib/rake/application.rb:160:in `standard_exception_handling'
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392@global/gems/rake-10.0.4/lib/rake/application.rb:88:in `load_rakefile'
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392@global/gems/rake-10.0.4/lib/rake/application.rb:72:in `block in run'
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392@global/gems/rake-10.0.4/lib/rake/application.rb:160:in `standard_exception_handling'
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392@global/gems/rake-10.0.4/lib/rake/application.rb:70:in `run'
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/bin/ruby_noexec_wrapper:14:in `eval'
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/bin/ruby_noexec_wrapper:14:in `<main>'
(See full trace by running task with --trace)

This problem was easy to fix. But afterwards there are a lot of errors with ruby 1.9.3. Setting gem deprecated to version 2.0.1 fixed warnings about the deprecate. Now following errors:

bc. rvm use ruby-1.8.7-p357 do gem install --no-ri --no-rdoc deprecated --version=2.0.1
rvm use ruby-1.8.7-p357 do rake dbi
rake aborted!
uninitialized constant Rake::GemPackageTask
./build/rake_task_lib.rb:39:in `build_package_tasks'
./build/Rakefile.dbi.rb:50
./build/Rakefile.dbi.rb:37
/opt/dbi/Rakefile:4
(See full trace by running task with --trace)


Used "mirrorselect":http://en.gentoo-wiki.com/wiki/Mirrorselect to find better mirrors, as @emerge imagemagick@ failed. Tried @emerge =libjpeg-turbo-1.1.1@. Found only @ftp://mirror.switch.ch/mirror/gentoo/distfiles/libjpeg8_8d-1.debian.tar.gz@ emerge searches for @libjpeg8_8c-2.debian.tar.gz@. After a call to @emerge --sync@ the problem went away!

h3. Fixed dbi

With the commit bd5b56e68d33d in my private copy of zenos "dbi":https://github.com/ngiger/ruby-dbi/commit/bd5b56e68d33d50f7e6044feb00cf3bedbef5120 I was able to install dbi via my setup script.

h3. State of running oddb.org (Errors as expected)

Now I was ready to manually execute @cd /var/www/oddb.org && bin/oddb@. Output was like this:

bc.  bin/oddbd 
/usr/local/rvm/rubies/ruby-1.9.3-p392/lib/ruby/site_ruby/1.9.1/rubygems/custom_require.rb:36:in `require': iconv will be deprecated in the future, use String#encode instead.
could not find htmlgrid.so, falling back to pure-ruby class
racc/parser.rb:33: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Version
racc/parser.rb:34: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Revision
racc/parser.rb:36: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Core_Version_R
racc/parser.rb:37: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Core_Revision_R
racc/parser.rb:41: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Core_Revision_C
racc/parser.rb:49: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Main_Parsing_Routine
racc/parser.rb:50: warning: already initialized constant Racc_YY_Parse_Method
racc/parser.rb:51: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Core_Version
racc/parser.rb:52: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Core_Revision
racc/parser.rb:53: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Type
/var/www/oddb.org/src/util/quanty/parse.rb:461:in `module_eval': parse.y:84: invalid multibyte char (US-ASCII) (SyntaxError)
parse.y:84: invalid multibyte char (US-ASCII)
parse.y:84: syntax error, unexpected $end, expecting keyword_then or ',' or ';' or '\n'
      when /\A[A-Za-z_µ]+([A-Za-z_µ0-9-]+[A-Za-z_µ])?/ou
                        ^
        from /var/www/oddb.org/src/util/quanty/parse.rb:461:in `<class:Parse>'
        from /var/www/oddb.org/src/util/quanty/parse.rb:459:in `<class:Quanty>'
        from /var/www/oddb.org/src/util/quanty/parse.rb:457:in `<top (required)>'
        from /usr/local/rvm/rubies/ruby-1.9.3-p392/lib/ruby/site_ruby/1.9.1/rubygems/custom_require.rb:36:in `require'
        from /usr/local/rvm/rubies/ruby-1.9.3-p392/lib/ruby/site_ruby/1.9.1/rubygems/custom_require.rb:36:in `require'

The following small errors had to be fixed:
* some "missing gems":https://github.com/ngiger/oddb.org/commit/fd1e90931d49b54e7f1a6c41a9a5eb18d467fc77 
* parse.y without "magic comment":https://github.com/ngiger/oddb.org/commit/fc2d8e7a795f3ecb08a3e9019b7085ddd49644d1
* "facets needs version < 2.0.0":https://github.com/ngiger/oddb.org/commit/fa739fc68b8b6b1a9d304aa41eb1abf3a0fa73db
* "Paypal misses a require":https://github.com/ngiger/oddb.org/commit/fd119fbea7a2049cbd7f61ef621b7e3f02c48cf3

*TODO:* report magic comment problem and patch to upstream


h3. No oddbapp comes up and waits for the database server

bc.  bin/oddbd 
/usr/local/rvm/rubies/ruby-1.9.3-p392/lib/ruby/site_ruby/1.9.1/rubygems/custom_require.rb:36:in `require': iconv will be deprecated in the future, use String#encode instead.
could not find htmlgrid.so, falling back to pure-ruby class
racc/parser.rb:33: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Version
racc/parser.rb:34: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Revision
racc/parser.rb:36: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Core_Version_R
racc/parser.rb:37: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Core_Revision_R
racc/parser.rb:41: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Core_Revision_C
racc/parser.rb:49: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Main_Parsing_Routine
racc/parser.rb:50: warning: already initialized constant Racc_YY_Parse_Method
racc/parser.rb:51: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Core_Version
racc/parser.rb:52: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Core_Revision
racc/parser.rb:53: warning: already initialized constant Racc_Runtime_Type
[DEPRECATED] By requiring 'spreadsheet/excel' you are loading a Compatibility
             layer which provides a drop-in replacement for Spreadsheet::Excel
             versions <= 0.3.5.1. This code will be removed in Spreadsheet
             version 1.0.0
/var/www/oddb.org/src/view/changelog.rb:27: warning: already initialized constant SORT_DEFAULT
/var/www/oddb.org/src/view/drugs/resultlist.rb:24: warning: already initialized constant BACKGROUND_SUFFIX
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/dbd-pg-0.3.9/lib/dbd/pg/database.rb:82:in `rescue in initialize': could not connect to server: No such file or directory (DBI::OperationalError)
        Is the server running locally and accepting
        connections on Unix domain socket "/run/postgresql/.s.PGSQL.5432"?
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/dbd-pg-0.3.9/lib/dbd/pg/database.rb:41:in `initialize'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/dbd-pg-0.3.9/lib/dbd/Pg.rb:157:in `new'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/dbd-pg-0.3.9/lib/dbd/Pg.rb:157:in `connect'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/dbi-0.4.5/lib/dbi/handles/driver.rb:33:in `connect'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/dbi-0.4.5/lib/dbi.rb:148:in `connect'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/connection_pool.rb:63:in `block in _connect'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/connection_pool.rb:62:in `times'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/connection_pool.rb:62:in `_connect'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/connection_pool.rb:59:in `block in connect'
        from <internal:prelude>:10:in `synchronize'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/connection_pool.rb:59:in `connect'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/connection_pool.rb:22:in `initialize'
        from /var/www/oddb.org/etc/db_connection.rb:5:in `new'
        from /var/www/oddb.org/etc/db_connection.rb:5:in `<top (required)>'
        from /usr/local/rvm/rubies/ruby-1.9.3-p392/lib/ruby/site_ruby/1.9.1/rubygems/custom_require.rb:36:in `require'
        from /usr/local/rvm/rubies/ruby-1.9.3-p392/lib/ruby/site_ruby/1.9.1/rubygems/custom_require.rb:36:in `require'
        from bin/oddbd:10:in `<main>'

        
Next step is to setup the PostgreSQL database correctly. Already added all files as is and added them to the @modules/oddb_org/files@ in my repository at @/etc/puppet@.

Added some small script stops @manifests/pg.pg@  and @manifests/oddb_org.pg@. Loading the dumped database file fails, because of missing disk space. Added a 20GB sdb drive. Adapted /etc/fstab, unmerged postgresql-server-8.4 and move /var/lib/postgresql -> /mnt/sdb1 and created a logical link.
Some more fixes to make @puppet apply /etc/puppet/modules/oddb_org/tests/oddb_org.pp@ work again.

Loading the pg-dump work at the third attempt. At the second attempt it took longer than the default timeout of 5 minutes for running puppet commands. Measured 5 minutes and 12 seconds. Takes about 4 GB of disk space.

*TODO:* I am not sure whether it is needed to chmod 0777 /run/postgresql to enable connections.

Now starting bin/oddb fails with:

bc. bin/oddbd 
/usr/local/rvm/rubies/ruby-1.9.3-p392/lib/ruby/site_ruby/1.9.1/rubygems/custom_require.rb:36:in `require': iconv will be deprecated in the future, use String#encode instead.
could not find htmlgrid.so, falling back to pure-ruby class
<..>
ERROR:  relation "target_id_oddb_package_name_with_size_company_name_and_ean13" already exists
process: Oddb (OddbApp)
init system
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/marshal.rb:15:in `load': undefined class/module CSV::Cell (ArgumentError)
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/marshal.rb:15:in `load'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:239:in `block in fetch_collection'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:238:in `each'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:238:in `fetch_collection'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:632:in `restore'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:318:in `block in fetch_or_restore'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:313:in `call'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:313:in `fetch_or_do'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:317:in `fetch_or_restore'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:640:in `restore_object'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:605:in `load_object'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:226:in `block in fetch'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:313:in `call'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:313:in `fetch_or_do'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/cache.rb:225:in `fetch'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/stub.rb:49:in `odba_receiver'
        from /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392/gems/odba-1.1.0/lib/odba/stub.rb:112:in `method_missing'
        from /var/www/oddb.org/src/util/oddbapp.rb:775:in `rebuild_atc_chooser'
        from /var/www/oddb.org/src/util/oddbapp.rb:101:in `init'
        from /var/www/oddb.org/src/util/oddbapp.rb:1420:in `initialize'
        from bin/oddbd:42:in `new'
        from bin/oddbd:42:in `<main>'


Created helper ruby script to patch a ruby gem (which probably will need refinement if on the same machine there were also clones of file to patch). See @modules/oddb_org/files/apply_ruby_patch.rb@. After that things began to look better and bin/oddb starts up.

bc. bin/oddbd
<..>
process: Oddb (OddbApp)
init system
init system: 23.597038449
setup drb-delegation
reset
reset: 23.597334576
system initialized
initialized: 23.676577887

To make mod_ruby work little work had to be done. See "commit":https://github.com/ngiger/vagrant-oddb_org/commit/6eb941fbf3a087159bb416634ee7f6e424c642a6

Then I patched manually my development /etc/hosts to have a line like @127.0.0.1 localhost oddb.niklaus.org@ 

On the puppet master I have the following line @10.0.2.15 oddb.niklaus.org@ in @/etc/hosts@. Also patched the ServerName in @/etc/apache2/vhosts.d/oddb.conf@ to have @ ServerName oddb.niklaus.org@.

Then on my dev machine I made firefox look at @http://oddb.niklaus.org:22080/@ and got

bc. #!/usr/bin/env ruby
# index.rbx -- oddb.org -- 27.09.2012 -- yasaka@ywesee.com
# index.rbx -- oddb.org -- 21.02.2012 -- mhatakeyama@ywesee.com
# index.rbx -- oddb.org -- hwyss@ywesee.com
require 'rubygems'
require 'sbsm/request'
require 'util/oddbconfig'
DRb.start_service('druby://localhost:0')
begin
  request = SBSM::Request.new(ODDB::SERVER_URI)
  if request.is_crawler?
    if request.cgi.user_agent =~ /google/i
      request = SBSM::Request.new(ODDB::SERVER_URI_FOR_GOOGLE_CRAWLER)
    else
      request = SBSM::Request.new(ODDB::SERVER_URI_FOR_CRAWLER)
    end
  end
  request.process
rescue Exception => e
	$stderr << "ODDB-Client-Error: " << e.message << "\n"
	$stderr << e.class << "\n"
	$stderr << e.backtrace.join("\n") << "\n"
end

h3. Make yus work

A few things are found unter @modules/oddb_org/manifests/yus.pp@, wehere I install an sha25.rb, populate the /etc/yus (yaml, keys and crt).

To work with ruby-1.8.7 I I removed all rvm related stuff from the PATH environment variable.
A first attempt to @emerge ruby-password@ failed. After trying various things. I tried to follow "masa:"http://dev.ywesee.com/wiki.php/Masa/20110105-update-dbi-pg-oddbOrg#TestDbi, and specified everything in @manifests/yus.pp@ and @files/install_yus.sh@. As far as I can tell I have the same situation, but I still get the failure.

bc. oddb ~ # RUBYOPT=-rauto_gem rvm system do gem list
*** LOCAL GEMS ***
dbi (0.4.5)
deprecated (2.0.1)
facter (1.6.4)
json (1.7.7)
magic_encoding (0.0.2)
needle (1.3.0)
odba (1.1.0)
pg (0.15.0)
postgres (0.8.1)
racc (1.4.9)
rake (0.9.2.2)
rclconf (1.0.0)
yus (1.0.0)
oddb ~ # eix dev-ruby/dbi
[I] dev-ruby/dbi
     Available versions:  *0.4.3 (~)0.4.5 {doc elibc_FreeBSD examples mysql odbc postgres ruby_targets_ruby18 sqlite sqlite3 test}
     Installed versions:  0.4.5(07:38:46 PM 03/27/2013)(ruby_targets_ruby18 -doc -elibc_FreeBSD -mysql -odbc -postgres -sqlite -sqlite3 -test)
     Homepage:            http://ruby-dbi.rubyforge.org/
     Description:         Database independent interface for accessing databases
oddb ~ # eix dev-ruby/dbd-pg
[D] dev-ruby/dbd-pg
     Available versions:  *0.3.8 *0.3.9 {elibc_FreeBSD ruby_targets_ruby18 test}
     Installed versions:  0.3.9(08:34:34 PM 03/27/2013)(ruby_targets_ruby18 -elibc_FreeBSD -test)
     Homepage:            http://ruby-dbi.rubyforge.org
     Description:         The PostgreSQL database driver (DBD) for Ruby/DBI
oddb ~ # RUBYOPT=-rauto_gem rvm system do ruby /usr/local/bin/dbi_test.rb 
I am running ruby 1.8.7
Available drivers=[]
/usr/lib64/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/dbi-0.4.5/lib/dbi.rb:300:in `load_driver': Unable to load driver 'pg' (underlying error: wrong constant name pg) (DBI::InterfaceError)
        from /usr/lib64/ruby/1.8/monitor.rb:242:in `synchronize'
        from /usr/lib64/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/dbi-0.4.5/lib/dbi.rb:242:in `load_driver'
        from /usr/lib64/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/dbi-0.4.5/lib/dbi.rb:160:in `_get_full_driver'
        from /usr/lib64/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/dbi-0.4.5/lib/dbi.rb:145:in `connect'
        from /usr/local/bin/dbi_test.rb:10

Switching to pg (0.9.0) did not change anything. Therefore commited my changes. And having a look at the currency server.

h3. currency server


h2. Start again with good basebox and without rvm/rbenv

* Some patches to use also puppet librarian
* patched veewee box to use pure funtoo puppet
* 2 hours to fix some minor problems and waiting for emerge to finish
* Status: 
** yus and currency should run as services
** bin/oddb still has problems
* checked in changes and called vagrant reload to verify startup from scratch

h1. DB für medi

Gemäss E-Mail

http://pillbox.oddb.org/postgresql_database-oddb.org.ruby193-backup.gz (728 MB)

Das Skript welches bei mir die DB dropped und neu erstellt, habe ich Dir attached. Das greift direkt auf unseren Server zu, dort kommt Du noch nicht drauf aber wie wir die DB erstellen und droppen ist dort trotzdem drinnen.

Siehe Anhang.

h1. Unsuccessfull tries to build a basebox using veewee

Benutze Ruby 1.9.2p320 (ich wusste, dass damit gentoo läuft)

bc. git clone git://github.com/ngiger/vagrant-oddb_org.git
git clone git://github.com/jedi4ever/veewee.git
cd veewee
bundle install
vagrant basebox define funtoo-latest-x86_64 funtoo-latest-x86_64
# lokale Modifikationen von mir in definitions/funtoo-latest-x86_64
# damit es hochkommt
vagrant basebox build funtoo-latest-x86_64
# Das dauert ca 35 Minuten mit 4 CPU & 4 GB lange. Kompiliert 3.8.4-gentoo for x86_64
vagrant basebox export funtoo-latest-x86_64
ssh -o UserKnownHostsFile=/dev/null -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no -p 7222 -l root 127.0.0.1 # Zum Testen ob alles gut lief
vagrant box add funtoo-latest-x86_64 funtoo-latest-x86_64.box
cd ..
vagrant init funtoo-latest-latest-x86_64
vagrant up
vagrant ssh

h2. Vagrant setup

I will create a puppet forge module ngiger/oddb_org to place everything. I will use the "puppet-librarian":https://github.com/rodjek/librarian-puppet to combine the needed foreign puppet-modules and my own own one.


h1. Discussion

h2. Use of Veewee

"Veewee":https://github.com/jedi4ever/veewee makes installing a complete Linux distribution easy.

The goal is to have a minimal server system, which you can afterwards customize using "puppet":http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/ or chef.

Veewee has two different templates for funtoo. I choose funtoo-latest-x86_64 as it was simpler to bring up (but I lost an hour till a switch using a different iso image and most of the @definition.rb@ of @funtoo-latest-generic_64-stable@. It has only two simple ruby script which configure the whole system. As long as one can start with it, I just don't want to tinker with it.

The funtoo templates are not current. But I found a preconfigured "Vagrant boxes":http://ftp.heanet.ie/mirrors/funtoo/funtoo-current/vagrant/x86-64bit/vagrant-generic_64-funtoo-current-2012-01-26.box

h2. Use of Vagrant

Vagrant is the glue to create definitions for puppet on you development machine and run them easily on a virtualbox VM.

To keep things simple, I use a single fix hostname @oddb_dev@. I use puppet > 3.0 as it makes things a lot more scalabe and easier to configure than 2.7.




Differences between